# Online-Shopper-s-Purchasing-Intention
One of the most popular activities on the Web is shopping. It has much allure in it — you can shop at your leisure, anytime, and in your PJs. Literally anyone can have their pages built to display their specific goods and services and create a market for buyers to purchase their products. History of ecommerce dates back to the invention of the very old notion of "sell and buy,'' electricity, cables, computers, modems, and the Internet. E-commerce became possible in 1991 when the Internet was opened to commercial use. Since that date thousands of businesses have taken up residence at web sites. Even though E-commerce industry is experiencing perennial growth since its inception, one of the crucial problems is that most of the visitors still do not complete their online shopping process. This leads to loss of revenues for the online retailer’s. This study is done in order to provide a solution for the above mentioned problem by evaluating the actions taken by the visitors on E-commerce environment in real time and predicting the visitor’s shopping intent. The information provided by the visits of users is fed to machine learning classification algorithms to build a predicting model. In the process of refining the model and making it better to provide more insightful results, oversampling and feature selection pre-processing steps are employed. In the booming e-commerce sector, with as many as 1,06,086 e-commerce companies just in India, cut-throat competition plagues a business. Conversion rates being as low as 1 to 2%, a business must assess the sessions logged in by visitors to recognize potential customers with high purchase intent so that one can nurture the leads and/or use remarketing tools to convert them.
